.\" Manual is created by Janos SUTO, 2006.01.23
.TH "TRAIN" "1" "Januar 23, 2006" "Janos SUTO" "Clapf network filter"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
train \- train the MySQL database with a single RFC-822 format message
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
train -c <configuration file> [-S <spam message> | -H <ham message>] [-u <uid>]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 

The train utility is for training the token database. It reads the database
parameters from the configuration file to know how to connect. Then it reads
and parses the message file containing a RFC-822 formatted email and inserts
or updates the corresponding tokens. A single message is either ham or spam
so you cannot use the -S and -H switches together.

You may specify the user id if you want to train a specific user, or it's
the global database (uid=0).

Please note that the clapf user id has nothing to do with Unix user ids.

The train utility is also suitable to handle Maildir format mailboxes.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP

.TP

.TP
\fB\-c FILE\fR
Read configuration from FILE.

.TP
\fB\-S messagefile
Read email from messagefile and it is a spam.

.TP
\fB\-H messagefile
Read email from messagefile and it is a ham.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP

.TP
Train the database with a spam message:
.TP
\fBtrain -c /usr/local/etc/clapf.conf -S letter1

.TP
Train the database with a ham message:
.TP
\fBtrain -c /usr/local/etc/clapf.conf -H letter2


.TP
Train the database with a spam message for user joe who has uid=2001:
.TP
\fBtrain -c /usr/local/etc/clapf.conf -S letter1 -u 2001



.SH "FILES"
.LP
/usr/local/etc/clapf.conf

.SH "MORE INFORMATION"
.LP
Please see http://clapf.acts.hu/training.html 

.SH "LATEST VERSION"
.LP
Please check the primary site: http://clapf.acts.hu/ or the Sourceforge mirror
http://clapf.sf.net/ for the latest and hottest version of clapf as well as
online documentation.

.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP
Janos SUTO <sj@acts.hu>
